Friday Afternoon, July 8, 2005

Matt came into my office w/o asking if I was busy, came around to where I was sitting, sat down, and asked me if the project summary he was holding looked familiar.  When I said yes, he then asked if I had done the last two requirements.  He knew (and even admitted to) knowing that I didn't do them.  I told him that I had forgotten to do them b/c so much time had passed between me being told to put the report aside until Dan got back and me sending it to QA when that particular error was solved.  Needless to say, it bothered me that he would ask me those two questions, b/c at best he was being condescending and at worst he was trying to see if I'd lie my way out of it.

I told him that I'd get right on it (he said that I should finish the page that I was on and then get to the report).  I then realized that I didn't know how the platform passed variables to Crystal Reports so I sent him an email asking him to see me when he was free.  When he came into my office I asked him my question and we started looking at the documentation.   He told me even though the documentation was mainly for PDF reports that Dan had done some with Crystal.  He found something that looked promising and read it aloud.  He then told me to bring up Query Analyzer and to prepare to enter some rows into a table.

At this point I knew I needed a break.  I had been looking at database tables all day, and I was upset by some news I had just received (I still don't feel that I need to justify taking a break.  Matt IS NOT my boss.)  Plus, I have had first-hand experience with Matt watching me like a hawk and pouncing on a perceived weakness.  And I didn't expect him to want to sit down with me, I was only looking for some direction and had told him as much.  When I said that I needed a break, he didn't respect that.  He said that he wanted to do it quickly to see if it would work.  I thought that was reasonable, but then when I saw him fumbling around I realized that this wasn't going to be quick.  I told him again that I needed a break.  At this point things started to go downhill.  He looked at me strangely, and by this time I could tell that I was visibly upset.  I told him that I didn't want him to do my work for me.  He asked if I was upset with him (I think he asked me that), and I said, no, I just need a break and something to eat.  We began walking towards my office door (which was closed).  At this point, instead of respecting my desire to take a break (and I had told him that it would only be 5 minutes and we would get right back to work), he put his had on the doorknob, turned around, and said that he was very disconcerted that I couldn't do a simply Insert statement.  At this point I lost my patience.  I told him that I knew that he would take it that way, that it was his problem, not mine, and I again reiterated that I needed a break.  He didn't move, he didn't take his hand off the knob or move away so I could pass, and I felt like he was barring my exit (the only way I could have gotten out at this point was to push him out of the way, and I wasn't about to do that).  I told him at least one more time that I needed a break, and he finally moved so I could open the door.  As I was walking down the hall, I heard him making exaggerated exclamations.


-----------------------

When I returned from my break I sat down in my office and immediately entered the info into the database.  I first checked Matt's office b/c I wanted to speak with him, but his door was closed and it sounded like he was on the phone or talking with someone.  I checked to see if the added rows would fix the problem with Crystal, but it did not.  About 5-10 minutes later Matt walked by my open door, looked in, and I told him that we needed to talk.  I told him to shut the door and he took a seat.  I immediately told him that I haven't been this insulted in a long time.  I told him that I don't want him to talk down to me anymore, to act like he's helping me only to use it against me later, and I told him that I don't trust him.  I told him that if he doubts my abilities to do something then he should look at some code I had written, that I would be more than happy to supply him with a lot of it.  I said that he didn't have time to look at it.  I said that a good manager should know what people are capable of (again, Matt IS NOT my boss, but as a project manager he should still know what the other employees can do).  He at one point said that he wasn't upset with me that I had overlooked what was still needed to be done on the report, but that QA was upset with me.  This is a good example of Matt's poor leadership skills.  It almost seems like he enjoys telling me things like this, things he knows will cut me.  I told him that I have been professionally doing web development for over three years to let him know that I know how to do an Insert statement, but he took it the wrong way, as I knew he would, as a statement that I don't need help, that I know everything.  I told him that's not what I meant, of course I need help, I ask a lot of questions (in fact, it was one of my questions that prompted this whole affair).  I told him that the are several things that I know how to do well, and that I don't need help with those specific things.  He said something to the effect that he'd love to believe that.  This is another example of Matt being passive-aggressive and trying to put me down and humiliate me.  It's not the first time he's done this, not by far.  I also told him that he needs to respect me when I say I need to take a break.  I don't believe I was asking a lot.

The confrontation ended with me telling Matt that I can tell he thinks that I can't do my job, that it's written all over his face and that I can read him like a book.  It was also at this point that I said that I don't trust him b/c he acts like he wants to help me, or that it's ok not to know something and to ask questions, but then at a later point he uses it against me.

------------------------


My point in setting all of this down is twofold.  One, I want to give an accurate account (so I believe) of the things that were said and done by both parties.  Second, I want to use this as an opportunity to say that I don't like working with Matt b/c he is condescending, arrogant, rude, passive-aggressive, and two-faced with me.  Since I have to interact with him every day (and many times a day), it's beginning to effect my work.  For example, as I mentioned before, one reason I wanted a break is b/c I couldn't concentrate with him watching me like a hawk.  I knew that he was scouting me for a weakness, and sure enough he proved me right by confronting me when I needed a break and was visibly upset.

Lastly, Matt is part of management and I strongly object to the tactics and approaches that Matt uses with me.  I could attempt to guess where he is coming from, but I feel he should explain them himself.  Regardless, shaming me is far from the best way to make me produce.  
